Welcome all of you to this new video.
In this month's video, we are again going to talk about a health
product.  This
video is a complete explanation of this health product in which
we are going to have an in-depth discussion.   The
product is ICSC Labard's Health
Elevate plan.
I have also uploaded a brief video of this plan.  For those who
want to understand this plan in brief and what is inside it,
a short version and
plan has already been released.  Now this is the full
description plan.  If you have time
, you may want to look at the plan in depth.
What things are covered,
what conditions are covered,
this video has been made for that.
Before starting the video, let me
introduce myself.  My name is Hitesh
Singla Chartered Wealth Manager by
profession.  Ah, every month or every week I
try to bring some videos for you people
related to investment,
health insurance or basic insurance, basically related to
personal finance,
which can be helpful for you people
for your decision making process, in
between processes, anywhere if you
need any information or details about health insurance, want to understand which
plan is good or bad for you,
how to buy it, how to get
help out, for that
you can contact me on the number given in the description box.
So let's start the video.   First of all let's
talk about insurance.
If we talk about the Net Earned Claim
Ratio to Net Earned Premium of ICICI LBRD,
it looks quite good.
We consider a ratio above 70 to be good.  So
ICICI LBRD as a company is running it with 70 plus.  So it is a
very good thing.
Next comes the total number of policy
complaints with 10,000 claims registered
in the current year.  His number has also
reached double digits so far this year.  But it
is still in low double digits.  Its
number is coming around 16.  So the policy is fairly okay.   The
policy covers 10,700 plus network
hospitals.  I will try to share its list and
link with you in the description box
where you
can check the hospitals in your area.
Before discussing the policy in full detail, let us take a brief look at it.  A:
Here we will first talk about IPD.
In IPD of IPD,
you are going to get the base benefit of pre post reset and bonus.
Plus if you have a rider bonus
some riders are available.  If he has
taken that rider then that will also be applicable on IPD.
Consumables will not be covered under the IPD base.
But if you have
taken the consumers rider, it will be
applicable for IPD.  Day care
treatment is going to be similar.  Like that
of IPD.  Talking about domiciliary treatment,
pre
and post coverage will not be available on domiciliary treatment.
If the policy has been reset within the policy, then
you will not be able to avail its benefits in the domicile.
If you have taken the bonus under the
base plan, you will get the benefit.   Even
if you have taken a rider, you will still get its
benefit. If consumables are
not a part of the base policy, then you will not
get it there. But if a rider for consumables has been taken, then you will
get it as a rider benefit. If
the policy is not covering home care treatment, then there is
no point in talking about it.
Talking about AYUSH treatment, the
procedure will be the same as that of IPD and day care.  Pre-post reset bonuses will
also be covered in the base.  The bonus rider that you have taken will
also be covered.
Consumables are not part of the base policy and
hence will not be covered.  But if you have taken
the rider then it will be covered.  Maternity
All Together is not part of the base policy.
So this will be taken as a rider.
Due to this rider, you will
get sum assured over and above its limit.   That means it will
not impact the sum assured.
You will get a separate limit for this.
Under this, pre and post care will be covered for 30 days
i.e. prenatal care and post
natal care will be covered for 30 days
under the policy.  The reset and bonus
benefits will not be applicable there.   There
is no requirement there.
Couples are
not going to get the maternity benefit cover under the policy.  So let's
talk about organ donors.  Organ donor
treatment is also going to be similar to IPD day care and AYUSH
treatment.
Pre-post will be applicable.  Reset will remain
applicable.  Bonus will also be applicable for base policy.  Will be
applicable with rider also.  Consumables are
not part of the base policy and hence will not be applicable.
But if there is a rider of consumers then there will be
applicability there.  The policy will
also treat advanced technology treatments in a similar way.
A pre-post reset
bonus is part of the base policy.  They will
remain covered.  The bonus rider will also cover
advanced technology treatments.
Consumables are not part of the base policy.
If you have taken a rider then the
policy will cover it.  Air ambulance
is not part of the Again Base policy.  A. This will have to be
taken as a rider.  And if you take this rider then the
limit there will be
a separate limit.  So the readout bonus does
n't have an impact there.  Talking about road ambulance,
road ambulance
is a part of the base policy.  You will also get the reset sum assured inside this.  The
base bonus plus if you have added a writer
then his sum assured will also be applicable there.  There is
no requirement of daily hospital cash here.  The policy has
kept it as not required.  Talking about bonus,
Again Bonus is applicable for pre and post.
And if we talk about the base of consumables, then the
consumable base is
not a part of the policy.  But if
we have taken a writer for consumables.  So the base part of the bonus will also be
applicable.
If there is a consumables rider in the base policy, then
consumables will be covered there.  Now
comes the point where we have taken the rider of bonus.
Now when you take the bonus rider,
it will not be applicable on the pre and post payments.
Moreover, if you had
taken consumables in the form of a rider, then the
rider sum assured bonus will
not be applicable for consumables.   Let's
discuss consumables again.
If we talk about reset,
consumables are not applicable on reset.
I told you earlier that it is not applicable in the base policy.
But even if you have
taken the rider for consumables,
you will not get the reset time extension
in consumables.  Again,
when we talk about consumables and bonus,
since there are no consumables in the base policy, there will be
no discussion about bonus there.  But if
you have taken a rider on the base of consumables, then the
base
sum assured of the base bonus will also be applicable there.
But the third condition comes here,
if there is a rider on bonus and
also on consumables, then the applicability of sum assured of both of them will
not be there here.
A Next is talk point reset.   The
reset sum assured is applicable to you pre and post.
For consumers,
even if it is not a part of the consumer base policy
and even if you take a rider,
you will not get the reset value there.  If
annual health checkup
is not a part of the base policy then it will be
applicable to you as a rider and its separate
limit will be there, so there is no requirement that you will get the reset and bonus benefits there.
OPD
is also applicable again as a rider.  Not part of the base policy.
There is also a separate limit for reset and bonus.
There it will
not affect the sum assured there.
Therefore, reset end bonus will not be applicable.  The
policy is providing a very good feature.
That is global coverage.
Talking about global coverage,
that is not a part of the base policy.  As a
again you will have to take a rider.  So
pre and post will not be covered inside it.
First of all, reset and bonus
valuation is not required there
as it is a separate limit and
consumables will also not be covered as a part of the policy.
So now let us
start reading the policy in detail.
First come all the base covers that the
policy is going to provide.  I have written the base covers
but wherever the riders are, they are going to be
parts of the same.  Some of the bonuses like
I talked about can
also be added with a rider to your bonus.  So we will cover that
rider also here along with the base policy.  First of all, let us
talk about
how much coverage the policy is going to provide.  The
policy is providing policies ranging from Rs 5 lakh to
unlimited sum assured.
So this policy has expanded your coverage scope
so much that
you can get unlimited coverage scope from the very first day.
Ok?  You can also take a policy of Rs 5 lakh
, sum coverage and
also unlimited sum coverage.
People who can be covered under the policy, maximum
two adults can be covered under one policy and
three kids can be covered under one policy.   The
relationship was not properly defined in the policy wording.
So I did
not add it here.  If we define the age, then
a child from 30 days to 90 days, 91 days to
30 years is
considered a dependent child under this policy.  And the
age of an adult is considered to be from 18 years to 125 years.  Let's
talk about
waiting periods.
In the waiting periods, the policy is providing
cooling period here, that is, the
cooling period of the policy for the first 30 days,
which is a norm and an industry norm, is
available to you here, but
a new condition has been added here, the
policy will cover diabetes, hypertension, cardiac conditions after 90 days, that is, if
you face any problem related to diabetes, hypertension or cardiac condition within 30 days of taking the policy, then the
policy will not cover it.   The
next waiting period is for pre-
existing diseases. The
industry norm on policies that do
not cover pre-existing diseases is 36 months.  That
means this is the disease which a person has
declared.  Generally, the condition
remains the same that if any disease has been
diagnosed or any operation has been done or
someone is on medication which was started 36 months
ago, then it is
considered as a pre-existing disease.
Here the policy is providing a writer
which is named Jump Start.
What is the benefit of jump start?  Germ
Start benefits are available in the presence of
listed diseases such as asthma,
diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia,
obesity and coronary artery disease.  Ok
?  That means if someone has a stent,
coronary artery disease is called
stenting.  Stunting has occurred prior to one year.  So
I repeat all these diseases again.
Anyone have asthma?  There is diabetes i.e. sugar,
hypertension i.e. your
blood pressure which is called generally
hypertensive personal hyperlipidemia
obesity and coronary artery disease. Coronary
artery disease means with
percutaneous trans transluminal
coronary angioplasty done prior to one
year.  What does it mean?  This means
that if someone has had a stent inserted before one year.
Ok?  So if you take this rider then the
cover will start after 30 days
under the policy.  Apart from this there
is another rider.  The policy says that if
you have any other pre-existing
disease which is apart from these listed diseases.
Before 24 months or 12 months,
you want that there should not be a waiting period of 36 months.  If it looks like
24 or 12 then it will be
yours with this rider.  Again, the
condition in every condition is that
after you declare these diseases, the
policy should have these acceptable conditions.
Unless the policy
accepts this condition, it will
not count as a rider.   The
next part is specified diseases.  The
Specified Diseases policy has a
waiting period of 24 months.  Again
this is the industry norm.  A rider policy is offering.
Take a 12-month rider.
Pay extra premium and
start covering these diseases from 12 months.
But the
waiting period rider for the specified diseases cover is
not applicable on worldwide coverage.
You will get biometric surgery i.e. obesity surgery after a waiting period of 24 months and if you have
taken the Jump Start Rider as discussed earlier, then
you can get its coverage within 30 days.
Maternity Waiting Period
Policy is
not covering maternity as a base policy.  Here the
part of As a Rider will come.  There is
also a waiting period here because of the rider's parts.
If someone takes a maternity plan, then
he will get a waiting period of 24 months.
If you
want to reduce that waiting period, then there
is again a rider for that.  That's a 12-month
rider.  Under which, if you take this rider, then the
waiting period for maternity will be 12
months.  And when do you have to take it
?  You will have to take this only when you have taken the policy.
And once you have taken this rider, that is, if you
take a rider for 12 months, then the rider will remain with you for 2 years.
Mental illness is
not covered by any policy.  There
is again a waiting period for OPD here.  OPD
is not part of the base policy.  If you
take OPD then OPD will be covered after 30 days.
Dental OPD is
not going to be covered in the policy.  Critical Illness
Waiting Period or Survival Period.  So
after the 90 day waiting period for critical illnesses, if you have
taken critical illness.  If you have taken a critical illness plan
under this, then you will have to wait for 90 days
but the policy does not have a survival period.  This
means that the person who is diagnosed with the critical illness will be
paid out in the same manner.
So this is a good thing.
Now let's talk about payments.  So
copayment over payments
is as a rider within the policy.  You can take it as a
rider, there is no applicability.  So
you can take 10 30 40 30 40 50%.   The
policy is mentioning the deductibles but it was
not mentioned much or discussed much, so
I have said NA there.  A.
Once you have taken the co-payment, it
cannot be modified.
You can remove the co-payment by renewing the policy mid-term.  The
payment will be based on basic covers only.  Have you taken any add-on
or optional cover?  For example, if you have taken infinite
cover or worldwide cover, then
this comment will not be applicable in this policy.
So let's talk about claims.  So first of all,
if a person makes his first claim, then
how much sum assured is he going to get in it
?  So if the policy has
gone up to the second year then the sum assured
plus the bonus that has been added, the basic bonus that has been added in the
policy and if you have
taken the rider of power booster then its sum
assured has been added and if you have
taken the rider of inflation protection then you will get all these
sum assured in your first claim
but the maximum claim that can be made in one policy has been
told to you below, all those
things but because what is
called restoration benefit, it
kicks in only after the first claim, it will
start only after the first claim, so after
reset, your first claim amount will be
minus and added to it.  Ok?
So sum assured plus bonus plus power booster
plus inflation protector plus reset
minus the first claim becomes your base
part.
Talking about unlimited coverage, the policy as a
rider
is providing unlimited coverage.
Which has been named Infinite Care.
Its limit is also over and above sumshard.
This will not affect the Samsard.
What is unlimited coverage going to do
for your policy?  Here, unlimited cover will be provided to you for any single claim
in your lifetime.
Coverage will be lost for just one claim.  Once
you claim this unlimited cover,
this
coverage will not be provided for the next renewal.  So
to understand, someone took a policy of Rs 10 lakh.
That year he made a claim of Rs 30 lakh.
A serious illness has occurred
due to which a huge claim has been made.  So if
he has taken this Infinite Care Rider
then that claim will be released in his Infinite Claim Rider.
But after that he will not get this rider back.
And once you have taken this,
this rider will continue to be valid under this policy until a claim is made, he said.
Where can you use this issue in IPD?
You will be able to use it for these patients.
You can use it for day care treatment.
You can use this for Ayush's IPD.  Ok
?  A. Once the
infinite claim is utilized, the sum assured will become
zero for that year.  This means that
you will not receive any further claim.
After that claim, everything is totally zero.  Ah,
whatever option you have selected, whether it
is copayment or deductible, it will be
applicable here also.
Ah, Infinite Care, if you have
taken the rider of World Wide Cover, it will
not be applicable there.  There
is a special condition in the policy where they are
also covering the surrogate mother or oocyte donor in the policy.
But unlimited sum assured will not be applicable on it.   If
you want to take this cover, then you will have to take this cover within the first 2
years of taking the policy.
Even if there is a policy of two to three years at the time of inception, it will have to be taken at the time of inception.  That
means, if you are
paying the premium for two-three years together, then you can
take it on the day on which you are paying the policy premium.
Wherever you opt for this policy, as
I told you earlier, it will
always remain on there until a claim is made.
You will not get pre, pre and post cover in infinite cover here.  I
think that will be covered by your base plan and
its limit again I would like to tell that the
companies provide a separate limit above your base policy.
Talking about IPD, IPD is up to some should
cover.  These are all the normal conditions that the
room rent is good, here I would like to tell one thing that the
room rent charges are
available only for single private AC room.
Any room above single private AC room was
taken.  Single Private AC Room is again
defined by the policy as the
cheapest room in which
one patient can stay.  His attendant I
think can stay.  There should be a private room
with air conditioning
and an attached bathroom.  Now if the
hospital has created some categories of such single rooms then the
policy will consider the lowest room of the hospital.
If you have mistakenly taken a room above that, then
you will have to bear the associated medical expenses from your pocket.   The
policy covers pre-hospitalization for 90 days.
Expenses incurred if one has
employed nursing care staff inside the home will
not be covered under pre-hospitalization pay.
Ok?
Talking about post hospitalization,
post hospitalization is being given for 180 days.
Here too, summed up summed up.  Here
also the consideration is that the post
hospitalization medical expenses which
you will incur on physiotherapy have been given in
writing by a medical practitioner.
Let's say that
nowadays, it is not hospitals but doctors who
advise on knee care surgeries.  If any orthopedist
advises you that
you need physiotherapy sessions
after your surgery, then the
policy will provide you the charges for those physiotherapy sessions also.
But it should have been
written by a medical practitioner.   The
policy is covering day care procedures.
A. Here the policy mentions a point
that
intravenous chemotherapy,
radiotherapy, haemodialysis and other
therapeutic procedures will be covered under day care procedures.  The
policy does not mention how many
procedures are covered.
These three points
mentioned are also generally covered in all day care
procedures.  A.
Expenses
associated with automatic machine for
peritoneal dialysis.  Peritoneal dialysis is
a procedure of dialysis.
For that the policy will not cover him in day care procedures.
Advanced Technology Method which is
up to some assured, 11 procedures are
written here.  A These are standard procedures
that are covered under every policy.  If she is
covering advanced technology methods.   I wo
n't say standard because there will be many
policies that will cover some of these 12.
Some will impose limits.  There are
no pay limits here but all 12 procedures are being
covered.  Home Care Treatment:
I had told you earlier that the policy will
not cover home care treatment at the beginning of the policy.   The
policy will provide cover for domiciliary treatment health care up
to the sum assured.  There is no limit.   The
only condition here is that there should be continuous hospitalization for three days.   There
should not be a room available in the hospital or the person should
not be in a condition to go there.  There are
some treatments like if you have
asthma.   You have
bronchitis, tonsillitis,
or an upper respiratory tract
infection.  Laryngitis,
pharyngitis, cold cough, influenza, arthritis
, gout, rheumatism, ah
nephritis, nephritic syndrome, diarrhea,
dysentery disorders occurred.   There was a lot of
gastritis in the stomach and all over.  There are many diseases like
diabetes, mellitus, insupidus
ellipse, hypertension,
paraxia of unknown origin,
they have written many such diseases here
which the policy will not cover in domiciliary.
IPD in your normal treatments
causes some of these.
You need to get treatment for arthritis.  Gout needs to be
treated.  Diabetes
treatment: Any complications from diabetes that result in
hospitalization.   You have
gastrositis of a very severe order
due to which you have to go to the
hospital.  So for all such things,
you will have to go to the hospital only to
get treatment.  He is not saying this, he is saying
that you will not be given treatment at home.
Pre and post domiciliary treatment
expenses will not be reimbursed.  If any
domiciliary treatment is taken then pre and
post expenses will not be given which we have
already discussed.
Alternate Treatment Again Up to Sum Assured
AYUSH treatment is covered up to sum assured.  There
is no limit left.  There is no limit
on the treatment of organ donors.
Up to some ash is covered.   The
policy will not cover the pre and post screening testing or any other expenses of the organ donor who is coming to donate.   The
only
work involved is harvesting the organ and the
policy will cover all the expenses incurred there.  If any cost has been
paid for organ acquisition, it will
not cover those expenses either.  The
policy will not cover any cost incurred for organ transportation or preservation.
If something happens to the donor
because an organ has been taken from his body, then the
policy will not cover that either.
Ok?  To a large extent, this is also standard.  It
is the industry standard.  It is not that
only IC Nobard is doing this.
Most other policies also do not cover such things.  Let's
talk about road ambulance.
When we come to road ambulance, the
policy is covering it up to the sum assured.
What facilities are being provided?  The
task of transporting the injured person from the place where the accident or illness occurred to the nearest hospital.
Where he can get emergency care.
Any nearest hospital where he
needs higher medical facilities.  Which is the one who is
ready to admit him.  And this is
because
he is
not getting satisfactory medical services at the place where he is.   That means
those medical things are
not available there.  And the transportation has been
given in writing by your medical practitioner that you will have to be taken from this hospital to
another hospital
because that medical facility is
not available here.  From hospital to
diagnostic centre, there is a patient in a hospital.
From there he has to be
taken to the diagnostic centre.  Because
that advanced diagnostic
treatment is not available in that hospital.  So again,
if she incurs any ambulance expenses,
she will bear them through the policy.  But if the
insured has to be transferred from the hospital to his residence
after discharge from the hospital, then that
benefit will not be payable.  Ok?
Talk about air ambulance.  Air ambulance is
not part of the base policy.  This is the rider's
part.  In this you will have to take one rider
of the air ambulance which is a good thing.
Nowadays, many people do not like to buy it as it does not
require unnecessary cost.   I think I should take it.
It may be
useful somewhere.  A problem is the limit of up to sum
assured over and above sum assured.  That
means, if you have taken the air ambulance rider, then it will
provide you the air ambulance expenses till the sum assured.  But
edge will be provided separately.  Will
not affect your sum assured.  Now
what are the conditions for using it?  There is a life
threatening or emergency health condition in which the insured
person has faced a
problem and he needs immediate and rapid
transportation i.e.
transportation as soon as possible to the place where he is located
and at that time
emergency care has to be provided and he has to be taken
to the nearest hospital
and there is no provision of domestic road ambulance there.
Cannot be provided.
Domestic Air Ambulance Domestic
Road Ambulance cannot be provided.
And some medical practitioner writes this to him saying
that brother, he
needs emergency treatment right now.  So from there
he will be airlifted and taken to the nearest
hospital where some emergency
treatment can be provided.
Cover is limited to transportation from the
area of ​​emergency.  Where the emergency has occurred,
to the nearest hospital only.  Ok?
So please keep this condition in mind.
Many people do not listen to or understand this condition.
We will not cover.  What will you not cover
?  Any transportation from one
hospital to another,
if taking place, will
not be done by air ambulance.  You will have to do that
by road ambulance.  If that too has been
written by a doctor that that
medical facility is not available in this hospital.  A
hospital stay to the
insured person's residence after
discharge will not be covered.
If there are any air ambulance expenses which are being incurred
outside India.  If it is happening
outside the geographical scope of India, then it should not be covered.
We shall not be liable if medically
necessary treatment can be provided at the
hospital where the insured person is currently admitted.
If medically necessary treatment can be provided at the
hospital where the insured person is currently admitted, then
this
air ambulance service cannot be used to
take him to any other hospital.
Now since there is a separate limit for air ambulance,
reset pre-hospitalization and post-
hospitalization expenses will
not be applicable here.
Now coming to the reset or automatic
recharge and restore benefit, this should be
available up to some point under the policy.
Unlimited times available for any illness.
Earlier, a clause of 45 days was written in the policy.
But the policy has been revised a bit.
So, this 45 days clause has been removed.   The
reset benefit is applicable to you for any illness for an
unlimited period of time.
Remember, reset means
reset or restore means that the base sum
assured, if utilized, will be
refilled under this policy.
If you restore it, do not think that if the
policy is of Rs 10 lakh then it has become Rs 20 lakh
because you are getting a benefit of Rs 10 lakh on reset.
No, it is not like that.  The policy is only for Rs 10 lakh.  Out
of 10 lakhs, 5 lakhs were lost.   If Rs
5 lakh is restored then the policy will
stand at Rs 10 lakh again for the next claim.
Renewal Benefit No Claim Bonus is
applicable under the policy.  So here we will
talk about the base and some
add ons.  The first one is the base.  The
renewal benefit in the base policy is 20%
of the sum assured up to 100%, i.e. the
policy can increase by 20% every year
up to the sum assured.
But if no claim has been received in that year.
If a claim is made, it will not increase by 20% from the policy
base condition but will
not decrease either.  So if a person takes a policy of Rs 10 lakh from LETS, then there will be no
claim in the next year, but in the year in which he took the policy,
he has no claim.  Next year the policy will be worth Rs
12 lakh.  If there is
no claim next year, the policy will be worth Rs 14 lakh.
Third year claim has come.  Now after that year the
policy will remain for Rs 14 lakh only.  It will not be worth Rs 16 lakh.
Ok?  So this is the condition of the base.
After that comes,
if we can take a rider in this policy
which is called cumulative ah
power ah power power booster sorry
we can take the rider of power booster in the policy.
What will the Power Booster rider in the policy do?  He will add a guaranteed
sum assured.  When Guaranteed Sum Assured is
added to the policy, how much will it be added
?  100% of the sum assured every year.  Up
to unlimited time means this sum will keep
increasing till unlimited.  100% addition will continue every year.
So let's discuss it again to
understand.  This rider has been taken for a policy of Rs 10 lakh.
Power Booster:
By adding Power Booster rider,
₹1 lakh will be added to your claim in the next year, whether you get a claim or not.  Whether the
claim came the next year or not.
₹1 lakh more will be added.  The next
year again the claim came or not, 10 lakhs and by doing so
it will keep running continuously
up to unlimited sum assured which is a very
good feature to see and use,
whatever guarantee of yours
which was running earlier i.e. 20%,
that will also continue and along with that it will act as sum assured over and above that.  There
is also a third rider within the policy.  The third rider is cover
against inflation, that is,
your
problem will keep increasing according to the inflation in the policy, so here the percentage will
increase by which your inflation will
increase, if you have taken this rider then the same
problem will be added next year and
in the third, there is a condition with both the riders
where you
start trying to remove this rider in the policy,
then after a few years you feel that
I have to remove this rider, I do
not want this rider, so as soon as you
remove this rider, whatever
cumulative sum assured has been created due to these
riders, that is, due to power booster
or due to inflation protection, the
sum assured of both will become zero.
Your base will remain, the base will be saved and the
normal renewal benefit that you had added in the
policy, which was running in the base, will continue to run.
Your Claim Protector is also
not applicable on Consumables Reset Benefit pre-post hospitalization.  In fact,
your power booster is also
not applicable on all these things.  This means that you will not get the benefits of consumers,
claim protector, add-ons, reset benefits,
pre-hospitalization and post-
hospitalization benefits.
Delivery complications will not be covered.
Any complications will not be covered.
I think if this is not mentioned in the policy then it will
not be covered.
You can cover your newborn baby through the Again Rider.  The
limit here will be two times the
limit of your maternity.
So if you had a policy of Rs 10 lakh from LETS, you
got maternity cover of Rs 1 lakh or
you will get newborn baby cover of Rs 1 lakh.  Ok?   If the
policy was of Rs 5 lakh, then the
newborn baby will get a cover of Rs 500 up to Rs 1 lakh.  This is
again an optional cover to cover medical
expenses.  If a newborn baby is
hospitalized, then a minimum of
24 hours of hospitalization is required here
and the maximum coverage period will be 90 days.
After 90 days, the baby can be
made a part of the normal policy.
This is an odd add on.  There is optional cover.  Only then will you be able to take it.
Only if the maternity cover is the first cover, you will be able to avail this optional cover.   The
child's first year vaccination will be covered.  The
maximum sum assured
within it will be 1%.
Meaning if you get a maternity cover of Rs. 1 lakh
then your base will become around Rs. 100
and this too again sum assured over and
above your base sum as if we
talk about OPD, in OPD I have already
told you that dental treatment is not being covered
and again as a rider only the cover will be
over and above sum assured, these are its limits.
OBD treatment is covered only for people above 65 years of
age and those below that age will be eligible for
treatment here.  If
a person is above 65 years of age, then the
OPD treatment writer is not applicable to him.  There
is a waiting period of 30 days.
Utilized Consultation Wood Any
unutilized consultation will
not be carried forward.
Consultation network hospitals are
available through the app.
OPD consultation can be done with General Medical
Practitioners.   Consultation can be
with a specialist medical practitioner or a
super specialist and
AYUSH consultation is also covered.
OPD Include
Includes Maximum These are the limits
which can be explained to you when you start taking the policy
that these are the
limits.  There is no dental.  Physiotherapy
and counselling sessions for psychiatric
treatments.
If someone wants to take any treatment for mental health,
psychiatric treatment, that too will
not be a part of OPD.  Neither will physiotherapist
sessions be a part.  Diagnostic tests
the policy is going to cover.  Diagnostic
tests can be of any type.
Pathological tests may be done.
Biochemistry test may be done.
Hematological test.  Microbiological
tests may be done.  Radiology
Ultrasound TMT All types of tests
Diagnostic tests policy covers
if prescribed by a medical practitioner.
Any general study is being done.
Ah, that is excluded
from its scope.  There are some minor procedures.  The
policy will cover them also.
Like there is drainage of abscess, injections
, some things are being done.  A. IV injections are something
, sprain management is about joint movements.
Stabilization of joints, minor mood
management, all these are
covered by the policy on a higher basis.  Pharmacy
medicines prescribed to the pharmacy through the cashless
network within the maximum limit
prescribed under the policy will be
managed through the pharmacy.  Physiotherapy
sessions will be limited to 30 minutes of physiotherapy from
network hospitals.  If
physiotherapy sessions are covered in that package,
you will get them.
Mental illness policy is not covering.
HIV AIDS and only HIV AIDS will be
covered by the policy.  Moreover, the
policy is not going to cover any STDs.   There is
no high end diagnostics.
Vaccination is not covered.  Animaled by
vaccination is not covered by anyone.
No health checkup again as a writer will be covered.
This test policy is offering 5% off a sum assured maximum up to Rs 5000.  This is again limit
over and above sum assured.  But only those network
hospitals will have pre-defined tests.
This is the limit for adults on a once per policy.  Second opinion policy is
not covering.  E-opinions
are unlimited but that too will have to come through the rider.
Talk about daily hospital cash.  Daily
Hospital Cash Policy is not covering.   The
policy covers recovery or co-payment benefits.
If someone's
hospitalization lasts more than 10 days.
But as a rider will cover it.  If it exceeds 10 days, then
your
fund balance up to Rs. will be given a benefit.
Will provide recovery benefits.  This will be
given only once in a year in the policy.
Speaking of compassionate travel, As a Rider
Again is also available.  If
someone has taken this rider for hospitalization by
paying money, then if the hospitalization exceeds 5 days, then
who are the family members included in the family members
?  Their husband or
wife can call their child that.  You
can call your parents and
you can also call your parents-in-law under this policy.
Ticket up to ₹00, the limit of which has been made separately,
by year or railway ticket, economy
class air ticket or by railway ticket will be given to
your
family member in that policy to
call him there,
personal accident cover, personal accident
cover is also given as a priority within the policy, it is
not a part of the base policy,
you can take a sum of up to 50 lakhs.
Over and above summed summed limit.  The
maximum adult age up to 65 years will be covered under the
personal accident rider.
Under this, if any person dies
within 12 months, that is, from 12 months to 12 months, and
his
main reason is any accident that happened 12
months ago, it will remain valid for 12 months.
If he
dies within this, then he will be given cover or
permanent total disability or permanent
partial disability,
you will have to check all these clauses.  If someone is
taking personal excellent cover.  But I will
not discuss it in much detail here
because many clauses and things come into play to
understand permanent total disability and
permanent partial disability.
Then comes critical illness cover.  Critical
illness cover up to Rs 50 lakh can also be availed
within the policy.  Over and above sum is assured.  Again, there
is a waiting period of 90 days after taking the critical illness cover.  But the survival period
here is zero.  So if someone has been taken to an
insured after 90 days and this writer.
Any critical illness as
defined, if diagnosed, will be treated at the
prescribed time.
This critical illness cover will be paid once in the policy for the entire policy tenure.
If the critical illness is mentioned in the pre-existing diseases
and is accepted by the policy, then the
critical
illness rule will not be applicable there.
An adult member
can avail critical illness cover for that disease only up to the age of 50 years.
Whether there are multiple illnesses or not, the
maximum payout is up to Rs 50 lakh.
Approximately some 20 critical infections have been
listed.  Where cancer has occurred.   Had a
heart attack.  There is
stunting of a specific severity.  Open chest
surgery has been done.  Got third degree burns.
Coma of specific severity.  End
of lung stage lung disease.  So there are many
diseases that you can go through.
Now let's talk
Sir, one or two extra benefits have been provided.  The
first is in-hospitalization of the
surrogate mother.
Any surrogate mother who has opted for surrogacy with a couple, if the
surrogate
mother has been appointed by the couple or
by the mother and has any complications
arising due to pregnancy or postpartum
delivery during the policy year,
an extra cover of up to Rs 5 lakh
is provided there.   There are
conditions for which a
waiting period of 30 days will be applicable.
This benefit is given to females as long
as they are insured and have been
insured for three years under the policy.  A
maximum coverage limit is
available for 36 months only.
This limit will be applicable to the surrogate mother only for 36 months.
Expenses
related to the delivery of the newborn, whether it is a
normal delivery or a caesarean, are
excluded.  This
portion has been excluded.  If the
Surrogacy Act has been followed for surrogacy and applicability.
Its rules and
regulations have been followed.  And the rest of these
IPD routes are being followed.  The other
cover provided as an extra is
inpatient hospitalization of the oocyte donor.
Again, if there is hospitalization for an oocyte donor
who has been appointed
by an intending couple or the intended female.
Any couple who
wanted treatment through a blood donor or was
planning a pregnancy through a blood donor.
So if there is
any complication while retrieving the penis, then
provision for treatment up to ₹5 lakh has been
given here.  This cover will be applicable for 12 months
after the retrieval procedure.  This benefit is extended to any female who is a
part of this policy.
Any expense incurred
on delivery of newborn.  Again,
any delivery express of New Born has been taken
out of the scope of this section.   You can
give her normal maternity cover.
Ah, this again the specified act is the
Assisted Reproductive Technology
Regulation Act, it will be followed through its rules and
regulations.  Terms
and conditions of IPD treatment and
fly.   Let's
talk about global cover now.  A. The policy is
not providing global coverage in the base plan.
But you can take it as a rider.
If you take it through this rider, then the
maximum sum assured available is up to Rs 3 crore
for global coverage,
which will be an over and above limit of sum
assured, which is the base sum assured for India.
As well as ah what is
one ah of using this global sum assured
?  A two-year waiting period is
applicable for the policy.  So
you can utilize this cover only after a waiting period of two years.
But in case of
accidental hospitalization, if a person is
travelling outside and gets accidental
hospitalization, then
you do not need to wait there.
This policy will be applicable there.
So this waiting period can be reduced.
Again, the World
Wide Cover waiting period can be reduced through a rider.  It can be
carried for 12 months.
This cover can be utilized only
for a person who
is a resident Indian and is below 65 years of age.
Coverage can be provided only to persons up to 65 years of age.
If any new family member is added to the policy, a
waiting period of 2 years will be applicable to him.
How will coverage be provided?  If any
person is travelling and his treatment is
going on there for 45 days.
It will be covered in a single trip.
Total number of days: If there are cumulative multiple
trips, then treatment coverage will be available for up to 90 days.
Here
they have divided it according to the number of days.  If it is
a single trip then the coverage will be for 45 days, if there are multiple
trips then the payment will be made for a total of 90 days.
Apart from this, if someone's treatment goes beyond 90 days
or more than 45 days in a single trip,
then whatever cost is incurred will have to be
borne by the person himself, which will have to be borne by the insurer himself.
Insurance cover will be available only for
hospitalization expenses and day care
procedures.  OPD basis
or any other basic cover or optional cover that
he has taken under the policy will
not be applicable here.  Any plan
is hospital hospitalization, here you
can also plan by doing planned hospitalization global hospitalization.
For that you will have to inform the policy 7 days in advance.
Which the policy will approve first.  Any
kind of cumulative, whatever we
talked about power booster, inflation protector, whether it is
for global or your
base sum assured, any
accumulative bonus in the base policy, any reset,
it will not be applicable here.  Any
kind of Infinite Care Rider
or Claim Protector
or Maternity Benefit availed will
also not be applicable here.  This
limit will be over and above sum assured.
You can take a ride reduction rider for 12 months.
And you will have to choose this on encryption.
You will have to run an optional cover to period continuous policy.  Again
Reset Pre Hospitalization, Post
Hospitalization, Medical Expenses will
not be applicable under this rule.   The
company has divided the policy into four zones.  The
good thing is that there is no zone based
coop.  The zone base is only being
used for your premium calculation.  If
you are a person from Zone C i.e. as
mentioned Rest of Punjab.  Some states of Punjab will be
mentioned above.  Let's say
Chandigarh was placed in Zone C.  If a person from Zone C,
Chandigarh comes to Zone A i.e. Delhi for
treatment, then
he does not have to pay any fee there.
Payment will not be applicable.   Let's
come to add ons.   The
first rider is the jump chart.
We have discussed the jump chart earlier also.  This is a rider
where a
person
wants coverage for the six listed diseases in the early stages.  If he
wants coverage within 30 days which
is pre-existing and he does not want the
waiting period of 36 months or 24 months, then if the 36 months waiting period is
applicable under our policy, then he can
take this rider.  So he will have to declare this thing.
If the policyholder
accepts this condition, then within
these 30 days, if
any medical condition arises after the cooling off period, then
it will become applicable under it.
So the first thing is where will the basic cover
be applicable brother, the
basic cover will be applicable under IPD.
These diseases will be applicable for any day care procedures
or treatment taken
or for AYUSH treatment.
Jump: Remember that
advanced technology will not be applicable there for treatment.   The
disease which I mentioned earlier declared
by the insured person except accepted by the
policy has been
detected if any disease or
condition is detected during the policy medical
examination.  Even if the policy holder
conducts the medical examination and
accepts the disease, there will still be a waiting period
of 30 days for the specific
insured person who has opted and paid
additional subvention. This additional subvention will be
placed in the policy's jump chart only then
this
cover will be applicable on you from the inception
of the policy and only for the sum assured
chosen at the time of inception of the policy. This cover has to be
taken at the inception of the policy.
Ah ah
once you have taken this, deletion of this option is
not available within the policy.   There will
be a waiting period of 30 days and
this policy is not applicable under worldwide coverage.  This jump set will
not be applicable.  This reduces waiting and
what are the things that will not be covered.
This is because someone has a
chronic condition that affects their bronchi and lungs and
constricts their body.
Hypertension: I have
already explained everything about it.
Everyone knows about hypertension.  The major risk that comes with having high blood pressure is
heart disease.
Kidney disease occurs.   Let's
talk about hyperlipidemia.
I have not discussed this here before.   It is
a chronic disease that causes elevated levels of
lipids or fats in your cholesterol
levels.  Triglycerides are one,
their level increases
in the blood.  So because of that, whatever heart rate
you have increases, the chances of strokes
increase.  That too is covered after 30 days.  I do
n't think anyone is covering diabetes.  There
is need.  Obesity also does not need to be covered so much.
But yes, there are some conditions that the BMI should be
less than 39.  Should be.   There should
not be any comorbidities with BAMI.  Coronary artery disease with
PTCA.  I had already told
you that there is a blockage inside the heart, to
open that blockage a
stenting called balloon angioplasty has been done
and due to that it has happened, that
treatment was taken and the
condition of that session has become better and the blockage
forming the artery is 50% or more, then
intervention must be determined
medically by the cardiologist
supported by colonic angiography fee.
Referrals to the which is the main stem and
diagnostic diagnostic procedures will
not be considered.  Excluded from this
scope system.  So if his diagnostic
procedure is being done then it will
not be considered.  But everything else will be
considered.
Chronic Disease Management This is another writer
policy provided.  Where if
you had diseases in the previous Jump Start and
you have
paid extra premium for them,
then you can also take a rider for the management of these diseases.
Where there
is a program called Chronic Disease
Management Program under which
consultations will be given.  You will be told about diet
management and
how to manage all these things.
Convalescence Benefit I covered this before.
If a person is
hospitalized for more than 10 days, he will be
eligible for up to ₹000.
If he has taken this rider, it will be payable once a year.   The
limit over above from assured is going to remain.
He has given a very good writer and
that is Nursing at Home.
You can employ a qualified nurse from any hospital.
If you have undergone any
IPD procedure and the
medical practitioner has medically written that a
nurse is required.
You can use this nurse for 10 days and the
company will pay you the expenses of that nurse at the rate of Rs 2000 per day.
We have also covered Compassionate Visits earlier.
If the hospitalization lasts for more than 5 days,
you can call your immediate family
members, i.e. your husband or
wife, your children, your parents
or parents-in-law to be with you.
After five days of hospitalization, the company will reimburse
you the cost of ₹00 per policy year on
economy class tickets,
by air or by railway tickets.
Wherever their residence is,
wherever you are insured, again this is a
rider.  For this, a separate premium will have to be paid.
Critical Analysis We covered this too.  The
90-day waiting period is the
survival period of zero doses.  This
is also a rider again.  You
can take it under the policy up to Rs 50 lakh.
Ah dependent accommodation benefit.  If you have a
dependent with you and are arranging for his/her accommodation, then the
company will pay the cost of his/her accommodation for up to 10 days at the rate of ₹1000 per day.  The
medical practitioner will certify for only one immediate family member
that the insured member requires
hospitalization for more than three days.  That's why
they will have to
make this guy.
Room Rent We have discussed earlier that the
room rent limit under the policy is for a single AC room.  The
policy provides you with an optional rider of Room Rent Modifier
under which you can avail three options.
Where you can take the policy to Any Room Rent
category.  This means that the room
rent category can also be increased from A single
AC room.  The second is room rent to twin
sharing.  So you can reduce that as well.
Room rent can also be taken on twin sharing basis.
Then, if you feel that you need to
reduce the premium further, then you can
cap the room rent at 1% of the sum assured or
2% of the sum assured for ICU per day.
Whichever policy
you use this modifier in, and the
manner in which you have entered the policy,
its associated medical
expenses will be used in the same manner.
I hope this detailed discussion would have been very useful for you.
Quite big
again whenever there is a detailed discussion
of the policy then that video is almost more than an hour long.
But I am able to discuss many things with him.  I
can tell you many features of every policy in depth.  I
hope you liked it.  If you
liked it, then I request you to
share, subscribe, like and
share this video with all your friends
who want to purchase the policy.  For any
kind of policy purchasing help,
you
can contact me on the numbers given in the description box.  Thank
you.